"According to Homer, how will Odysseus eventually die?"  a. A gentle death will come far from the sea..
"According to Homer, where did Agamemnon and Menelaüs rule?"  d. Agamemnon at Mycenae and Menelaüs at Sparta.
"According to Orphic theogony, the first principle was:"  c. Chronos.
"According to Vergil, Eurydice's untimely death resulted from:"  a. a snakebite she suffered while attempting to flee the advances of Aristaeus.
"According to the Homeric Hymn, Demeter at Eleusis tried to immortalize:"  b. Demophoön.
"According to the Perseus myth, the first coral was created when:"  a. Medusa's head rested on some seaweed.
"After Narcissus pined away, his body became:"  d. a flower.
"Among what people were Odysseus' men almost lulled into staying, forgetting their own homeland?"  d. the Lotus Eaters.
"At the end of Aeschylus' Oresteia, the Furies are transformed into:"  b. the Eumenides.
"By besting the river-god Acheloüs, Heracles won the hand of:"  c. Deïanira.
"For the last of his twelve labors, Heracles had to:"  c. drag Cerberus from the Underworld.
"Heracles experienced ""death"" by which of the following?"  c. He was engulfed in flames from a blood-soaked robe and then burned on a pyre..
"Heracles spared the lives of the Cercopes, two mischievous dwarfs, because:"  b. They made fun of his sunburnt behind and made him laugh..
"Heracles was to serve Eurystheus for twelve years, during which her performed his twelve labors for what offense?"  d. He had killed his wife and children in a mad rage..
"In Aeschylus' Libation Bearers, who speaks the words that drive Orestes to his final purpose, the murder of his mother?"  d. Pylades.
"In a variant of the myth, who is Dionysus' mother?"  d. Persephone.
"In order to get information from the three sisters of the Gorgons, Perseus:"  b. stole their one eye and tooth.
"In the Bacchae, what young king of Thebes rejects the worship of Dionysus?"  b. Pentheus.
"In the Underworld, what is the River of Forgetfulness?"  d. Lethe.
"In the myth of Er, where do the virtuous go?"  c. upward through an opening in the sky.
"Like Hesiod, the Orphic tradition introduces early on the procreative power of Eros, also called by the Orphics:"  b. Phanes.
"On his way home from the Trojan War, Ajax the Lesser was killed when he:"  d. boasted that none of the gods could keep him from escaping death at sea.
"Perseus, in his efforts to kill the Gorgon, was given aid by all but one of the following:"  d. Aphrodite and Poseidon.
"The noble houses of Thebes were descended from the ""Spartoi,"" whose name means:"  c. "sown men".
"What nymph was changed into reeds, which were then used by Pan to fashion a pipe?"  c. Syrinx.
"When Demeter first arrived at Eleusis, she stopped at:"  b. the Maiden Well.
"When Paris was born, Priam and Hecuba:"  a. left him on Mt. Ida to die.
"Who carried the bow of Heracles, without the aid of which Troy could not fall?"  d. Philoctetes.
"Who wrote Iphigenia in Tauris, in which we find Iphigenia a priestess of Artemis?"  c. Euripides.
"Who wrote a ""tragicomedy"" around the conception of Heracles?"  d. Plautus.
A full account of the initiation into the rites of Isis is given in:  d. Apuleius' Metamorphoses.
Achilles finally reentered the Trojan War after:  d. his friend Patroclus was killed.
Achilles had a choice between:  c. dying young in glory or living long with no fame.
Achilles in the Underworld tells Odysseus:  d. that he would rather be a slave among the living than a king in Hades.
Achilles was killed by:  b. Paris.
Aeneas travels to the Underworld:  d. "to speak with his father, Anchises".
Agamemnon incurred the bitter hatred of his wife by:  c. sacrificing their daughter Iphigenia.
Agamemnon refused to give back to Apollo's priest his daughter named:  b. Chryseïs.
An oracle told Acrisius that:  b. his daughter would have a son who would kill him.
Athena was so taken by the wailing of the Gorgons for their dead sister that she:  a. invented the flute to re-create the sound.
Bellerophon was sent away by King Proetus because:  d. the queen accused him of trying to seduce her.
Blood from the head of Medusa dripped on the Libyan desert and became:  d. poisonous snakes.
Both Odysseus and Aeneas try three times to grasp one of the shades. Who were they?  c. Anticlea and Anchises.
By which of the following is Orestes not given direct assistance?  d. Zeus.
Calchas was:  d. the Greeks' prophet at Troy.
Circe turned some of Odysseus' men into:  b. pigs.
Demeter is a goddess of:  d. grain.
Eteocles and Polynices were:  c. sons of Oedipus who killed each other at the same moment.
For what treasonous act was Antigone condemned?  c. She buried her brother Polynices..
For which Danaïd was a spring created near Argos?  b. Amymone.
For whom did Perseus perform his task of slaying Medusa?  d. Polydectes.
Forty-nine of the fifty daughters of Danaüs:  a. killed their husbands on their wedding night.
From whom was the Trojan royal house descended?  d. Dardanus.
Greek saga concerns cities and regions that were important in what historical period?  b. "the late Bronze Age, from 1600 to 1100 B.C.".
Heracles lay with the fifty daughters of:  d. Thespius.
Heracles missed the Argonaut expedition because:  d. He lost track of time searching for his beloved Hylas..
How did Atreus perpetuate the curse of his house?  d. He fed his brother his own children..
How did Laius bring a curse upon his house?  c. He carried off the son of his host..
How did Odysseus and his men offend the god Helius?  b. They killed his cattle..
How did Odysseus escape from the lair of the Cyclops?  c. He clung to the underside of a ram as it was going out to pasture..
How did Zeus seduce her?  b. He came to her as a shower of gold..
How does Aeolus try to help Odysseus?  d. He gives him a leather bag containing the winds..
How was Ixion punished in the Underworld?  c. He was bound to a revolving wheel..
In what city is Orestes' guilt finally expunged?  a. Athens.
In what dialogue can Plato's myth of Er be found?  c. the Republic.
In what place was Oedipus promised a respite from his sorrows?  d. Colonus.
In what play does Orestes discover his sister Iphigenia alive and a priestess of Artemis?  c. Iphigenia in Tauris.
In what play does the murder of Aegisthus follow that of Clytemnestra?  c. Sophocles' Electra.
In what shape did Zeus visit Leda?  b. in the form of a swan.
In which labor did Hercules face a huge crab and have the aid of Iolaus?  c. the Lernaean hydra.
In which version is Electra married off to a peasant?  b. Euripides' Electra.
Iole was:  a. a woman with whom Heracles fell in love.
King Phylacus asked Melampus to:  b. cure his son's impotence.
Neoptolemus was:  b. the son of Achilles.
Nessus was:  c. a centaur who plotted Heracles' death.
Odysseus had to go to the Underworld to:  a. get advice from Tiresias.
Odysseus was able to sail past the sirens by:  a. blocking the ears of his men with wax and having himself tied to the mast.
Odysseus was taken home at the end of his voyage by:  a. the Phaeacians.
Omphale was:  b. the woman to whom Heracles was sold as a slave for one year.
Orpheus had his origins in:  b. Thrace.
Paris chose which of the following goddesses as the most beautiful?  b. Aphrodite.
Protesilaüs was:  b. the first Greek killed in the Trojan War.
Sarpedon was:  c. a son of Zeus who died while fighting for the Trojans.
Satyrs are:  b. part animal and part man.
Some sources say the wife of Dionysus is:  c. Ariadne.
The Laestrygonians were:  a. cannibals.
The Trojans' greatest warrior was:  c. Hector.
The father of Aegisthus was:  d. Thyestes.
The father of Persephone is:  d. Zeus.
The first of Heracles' twelve labors was the:  d. Nemean lion.
The goddess who wasn't a guest at the wedding of Peleus and Thetis was:  c. Eris.
The goddess with whom Odysseus lived for seven years was:  b. Calypso.
The man who fished Perseus and his mother out of the sea was:  d. Dictys.
The man who had an affair with Agamemnon's wife and then helped kill Agamemnon was:  a. Aegisthus.
The name Hades may mean:  c. the unseen one.
The name Oedipus means:  d. swellfoot.
The prisoner Agamemnon took home from the Trojan War was:  c. Cassandra.
The soul of what hero praises Penelope?  a. Agamemnon.
The twin brother of Danaüs was named:  b. Aegyptus.
Under what name does Demeter travel to Eleusis and the palace of Celeus?  a. Doso.
What Greek hero did Heracles rescue from the Underworld?  c. Theseus.
What Thracian leader was killed on his first night at Troy?  d. Rhesus.
What arose from the Gorgon's blood falling upon the land of Libya?  b. snakes.
What arose from the blood of Uranus' genitals?  a. the Erinyes.
What city-state was intimately involved in the rites at Eleusis?  d. Athens.
What comedy by Aristophanes features the god Dionysus journeying to the Underworld?  b. Frogs.
What comrade did Odysseus find had not been properly buried?  a. Elpenor.
What creature guards the realm of Tartarus in Vergil's Underworld?  d. the fury Tisiphone.
What creature sprang from the beheaded trunk of the Gorgon?  c. Pegasus.
What does Aeneas not bring with him when he enters the Underworld?  b. a coin for Charon.
What does the term chthonian mean?  c. It refers to a divinity who is of the earth..
What does the term hierophant refer to?  c. the high priest.
What does the term omophagy mean?  d. It means the eating of the raw flesh of the sacrificial animal..
What god or goddess was the only one not to refuse the banquet of Tantalus?  c. Demeter.
What happened to the pirates who abducted Dionysus?  d. They were turned into dolphins..
What has been claimed as the ultimate revelation in the Mysteries of Demeter?  a. an ear of grain.
What hero does Diomedes refuse to fight out of respect for the rights of guest-friends?  a. Glaucus.
What is arete?  a. "excellence".
What is the Greek word for labor or contest?  b. athloi.
What is the Hippocrene?  c. the fountain made by Pegasus.
What is the fate of Acrisius?  d. He is killed by a misthrown discus..
What is the kykeon?  d. the prescribed drink first mixed for Demeter.
What is the meaning of Penelope's' usual epithet periphron?  a. "circumspect".
What is the name given to older satyrs?  a. sileni.
What is the name of the sacred band that forms the Dionysian entourage?  c. thiasus.
What is the name of the sons of the Seven against Thebes?  c. the Epigoni.
What is the name of the wand carried by Dionysus and his followers?  b. the thyrsus.
What is the nature of human beings according to the variant myth of Dionysus' origins?  a. Human beings are both titanic and divine..
What is the term for the things carried in the sacred caskets?  b. hiera.
What is the usual epithet of Penelope?  d. circumspect.
What king of Troy cheated Apollo and Poseidon of their pay?  c. Laomedon.
What may be the meaning of Odysseus' name?  d. "man of pain".
What object was Perseus not given for his quest?  a. "Bubo, Athena's owl".
What poet wrote a palinode in which he has a phantom Helen go to Troy?  b. Stesichorus.
What priest of Apollo gave warning about the horse but was strangled by two serpents?  c. Laocoön.
What region of the Underworld is Hell?  c. Tartarus.
What suicide does not respond to Odysseus at all?  b. Ajax.
What term is used to describe the harmonizing of different cults and their myths into some kind of unity?  b. syncretism.
What trinket would prove the undoing of Alcmaeon?  d. a necklace.
What was one of the most famous of women's festivals and the subject of a comedy by Aristophanes?  c. Thesmophoria.
What was the fate of Semele?  c. She asked to see Zeus in his true form and was blasted by his appearance..
What was the greatest center in Greece for the worship of Hera?  a. Argos.
What was the name given to the shedding of the blood of a bull in the rites or Cybele and Attis?  d. taurobolium.
What woman was abducted by Zeus in the guise of a bull?  d. Europa.
Where is Heracles' traditional birthplace?  d. Thebes.
Where is the chief sanctuary for the performance of Demeter's mysteries?  d. Eleusis.
Which Aegean island was home to the cult of the Cabiri?  c. Samothrace.
Which cannot be described as one of the ten most frequent motifs in saga?  c. The hero becomes a god..
Which character learns of Odysseus' identity through a scar?  b. Euryclea.
Which divinity is not associated with the stories of Orpheus?  b. Artemis.
Which god is a consort of Dea Syria?  a. Tammuz.
Which god is the special bane of Odysseus?  c. Poseidon.
Which goddess especially protected Odysseus?  a. Athena.
Which is not a Dionysian element in the story of Orpheus?  a. He plays a lyre..
Which is not a name for the queen of the Underworld?  a. Hecate.
Which is not a sister of Semele?  d. Nysa.
Which is not a typical feature of mystery cults?  c. disbelief in an afterlife.
Which is not another name for the god who rules the Underworld?  c. Plutus.
Which is not one of Heracles' twelve labors?  d. the slaughter of the giant Antaeus.
Which is not true of Dionysus?  c. "From the myths about him, it appears that he was native to Greece.".
Which is not true of Echo?  d. She spurned the advances of Pan and was transformed into a pine tree..
Which is not true of the hero Bellerophon?  d. He slew the race of Centaurs..
Which of the following did Odysseus defeat in a contest for the arms of Achilles?  d. Ajax the Greater.
Which of the following individuals escaped the first expedition against Thebes?  d. Amphiaraüs.
Which of the following is not a judge in the Underworld?  c. Charon.
Which of the following is not true of Tiresias?  a. "After his death, he lost the gift of prophecy.".
Which of the following is said of Orpheus?  a. He was torn apart by enraged maenads..
Which of the following kings was detained in Egypt?  b. Menelaüs.
Which sea-god does Aristaeus consult to learn why his bees have died?  d. Proteus.
Which tutor did Heracles kill?  a. "Linus, his music teacher".
Which two heroes tried to dodge the Trojan expedition?  a. Odysseus and Achilles.
Who accused Bellerophon of trying to seduce her?  c. Sthenoboea.
Who acts as tutor and companion of Achilles?  b. Phoenix.
Who aids Heracles in his self-immolation?  d. Poeas.
Who appears at the end of Euripides' Electra to predict the future course of events?  a. Castor.
Who are the Meleagrides?  b. the mourners of Meleager.
Who became king in place of Oenomaüs?  d. Pelops.
Who dies longing for Odysseus' return?  b. Anticlea.
Who dressed himself as Zeus and imitated the god's thunder and lightning?  d. Salmoneus.
Who finally told Demeter that Hades had carried off her daughter?  a. Helius.
Who helped Heracles fetch the Apples of the Hesperides?  b. Atlas.
Who is Eumaeus?  b. a faithful swineherd.
Who is credited with originating the Mysteries?  d. Orpheus.
Who is not included in the original Seven against Thebes?  d. Eteocles.
Who is sent to order Calypso to allow Odysseus to set sail?  c. Hermes.
Who is sometimes said to be the father of Orpheus?  d. Oeagrus.
Who is the first suitor to be killed by Odysseus?  b. Antinoüs.
Who is the first to wound the Calydonian boar?  b. Atalanta.
Who is the mother of Amphion and Zethus?  b. Antiope.
Who is the princess that takes Odysseus to her father's palace?  b. Nausicaä.
Who is the queen of Eleusis?  b. Metaneira.
Who is the younger brother of Heracles?  a. Iphicles.
Who killed Laomedon and installed Priam as king?  c. Heracles.
Who raised Oedipus but weren't his parents?  c. Polybus and Merope.
Who returns to Crete only to find that his wife has committed adultery?  d. Idomeneus.
Who served his son as food for the gods at a banquet?  c. Tantalus.
Who sprang from the cosmic egg in the Orphic cosmology?  c. Phanes.
Who tied Dirce to the horns of a bull?  a. Amphion and Zethus.
Who tries to convince Pentheus to revere the new god Dionysus?  b. Tiresias.
Who was given the gift of wine for welcoming the god?  b. Icarius.
Who was left behind by the Greeks to ensure that the wooden horse was taken into the city?  a. Sinon.
Who was the charioteer bribed by Pelops?  b. Myrtilus.
Who was the ill-fated son of Hector?  a. Astyanax.
Who was the king of Oechalia with whom Heracles had a conflict?  b. Eurytus.
Who was the legendary founder of Thebes?  a. Cadmus.
Who was the mother of Perseus?  c. Danaë.
Who was the tyrant of Pamphylia and murderer of his parents in the the myth of Er?  a. Ardiaeus.
Who were Heracles' real parents?  b. Alcmena and Zeus.
Who were the descendants of Heracles?  d. the Heraclidae.
Who wrote the Dionysiaca?  a. Nonnus.
Who wrote the tragedy Seven against Thebes?  d. Aeschylus.
Whom did Demeter select to spread her arts of agriculture?  d. Triptolemus.
Whom did Electra eventually marry?  a. Pylades.
Whom must Aeneas bury to enter the Underworld?  c. Misenus.
Whose hand did Perseus receive in marriage?  a. Andromeda.
Why was Demeter's daughter required to spend a part of the year in the Underworld?  a. She ate of the pomegranate..
Why was Midas granted the gift of the golden touch?  d. He released Silenus..
With which city is Heracles' legend not particularly associated?  a. Athens.
According to Homer, with what legendary tribe did Bellerophon have his most violent battle with men? | Solymi
According to one version of the story, Tiresias loses his sight because he saw which goddess bathing? | Athena
Agamemnon refused to give back to Apollo's priest his daughter, named | Chryseis
Athena, a female but martial goddess, could pose a threat to her father, but she is instead born from his head and becomes an ally | It is only as a punishment for the transgressions of Prometheus that Zeus orders Pandora, the first woman to be created
From whom is the Trojan royal house descended? | Dardanus
How did Elpenor die? | He went to sleep on a roof and fell off
How did Jason eventually die? | He was struck by timber from the Argo.
How did Minos die? | He was boiled by the daughters of Cocalus.
How did Odysseus and his men offend the God Helius? | They stole his cattle
In some stories Laius brings a curse down upon his family by which of the following ways? | He abducts the son of his host in exile.
In the myth of Er, who returns to life as a lion because he remembered the judgment of Achilles' armour? | Ajax
In the myth of Er, who was the tyrant who had killed his parents and experienced horrific suffering in the afterlife? | Ardiaeus
In the usual version of the myth, what is Pelops' most distinguishing feature? | an ivory shoulder
In what encounter does Odysseus lose all his remaining comrades? | the encounter with the Cattle of the Sun
In what form did Zeus appear to Alcmene, wife of Amphitryon? | Amphitryon
In what work is the Myth of Er recounted? | Plato's Republic
In who work is the Myth of Er recounted? | Plato's Republic
In whose court is Orestes raised? | Strophius'
Is some stories Laius bring a curse down upon his family by which of the following ways? | He abducts the son of his host in exile
Late Bronze Age, in c1600-1400, the Mycenaean kingdoms first started to build large palaces and flourished in Greek until c1150 BC | Late Bronze Age, in c1600-1400, the Mycenaean kingdoms first started to build large palaces and flourished in Greek until c1150 BC
Name of the river of forgetfulness in the Underworld | Lethe
On what island does the chest in Danae and Perseus are confined was up? | Seriphos
The Minotaur was half human and half what? | Bull
There is bull in the picture | Zeus disguises himself as a bull and takes Europa across the sea from Asia th Crete
Theseus abandons Ariadne on what island? | Naxos
What Greek is left behind to persuade the Trojans to open their gates to the horse? | Sinon
What assistant of Daedalus invented the saw from a fish's backbone? | Perdix
What creature, part lion, serpent, and goat, did Bellerophon kill? | Chimaera
What crewman of the argo could change his appearance in battle? | Periclymenus
What did Medea give Jason to protect him in his tasks? | a magic ointment
What does Odysseus do to summon the dead? | He digs a pit and fills it with the blood of sacrificial victims
What does Pegasus do after he is born? | He stamps his hoof and creates the Hippocrene.
What geographical feature was named after the daughter of King Athamas and Nephele? | The Hellespont
What god aids Odysseus' escape from Circe with the aid of the moly? | Hermes
What goddess especially aided Jason? | Hera
What happened to young Perseus when he was discovered by his grandfather Acrisius? | He was put out to sea in a chest
What is the Greek term for the labours of Heracles? | athloi
What is the first image we see of Odysseus in the Odyssey? | He is sitting on the shore of Calypso's isle
What is the name of the son Odysseus has with Circe? | Telegonus
What is the punishment of Ixion? | Imprisonment on a fiery wheel
What knowledge is Cadmus credited with bringing to Greece? | writing
What people group did the early Romans first unite with, according to Roman legend? | The Sabines
What people, who destroyed all of Odysseus' ships but one, did Odysseus encounter after his stay with Aeolus? | Laestrygonians
What poet describes the descent of Aeneas into the Underworld? | Vergil
What precisely does the Greek word sphinx mean? | strangler
What story is portrayed here? | The slaying of Medusa
What three things does Aeneas require to enter the Underworld? | a sword, the golden bough and a medicated cake
What token, thrown into the sea, is Theseus to retrieve to prove his claim to be Poseidon's son? | A ring
What was Cadmus told to do by the oracle at Delphi? | Follow a cow
What was the crime for which Sisyphus was punished? | He revealed that Zeus had carried off a nymph.
What was the name of the Amazon queen whose girdle Heracles took in battle? | Hippolyta
What woman, killed before the tomb of Achilles, will be the final sacrifice of the war? | Polyxena
What would prove the identity of the rightful king of Mycenae in the generation after Pelops? | the possession of a golden-fleeced ram.
Where does this story take place? | Troy
Where is the infant Oedipus exposed? | Mt. Cithaeron
Which companion of Heracles is lost on the Argonaut expedition? | Hylas
Which god is the father of Theseus, according to some versions of the myth? | Poseidon
Which heroic royal family had a particular problem with cannabalism? | The Mycenaean royal family
Which is not a name for Underworld spirit that seek blood retribution? | Daemoni
Which is not a name for Underworld spirits that seek blood retribution? | Daemoni
Which of his tutors did Heracles kill? | Linus
Which of the following kings was detained in Egypt? | Menelaus
Which of the gods kept Odysseus from returning home after the Trojan War? | Poseidon
Which one of the following Trojans escaped the Fall of Troy? | Aeneas
Which one of the following creatures was NOT involved in one of the 12 labours of Heracles? | Sow of Crommyon
Who abused the privilege of eating with the gods by serving them his son? | Tantalus
Who aided Heracles in his second Labor by cauterizing the decapitated stumps of the Hydra? | Iolaus
Who are born from the immortal egg of Leda? | Helen and Polydeuces
Who are the daughter of Phorcys whose name means the aged ones? | The Graeae
Who became the lover of Clytemnestra while Agamemono was away at the Trojan War? | Agamemnon's cousin
Who cuts a purple lock of her father's hair out of love for Minos? | Scylla
Who did Oedipus believe were his parents before he learned the truth? | Polybus and Merope
Who died in grief, longing for Odysseus' return? | Anticlea
Who does Aeneas need to speak with in the Underworld? | his father, Anchises
Who does Odysseus travel to the Underworld to consult? | The prophet Tiresias
Who escorted Priam to Achilles' tent? | Hermes
Who fulfilled the warning "beware of the man with one sandal"? | Jason
Who guides Aeneas in his journey to the Underworld? | The Sibyl
Who helped Jason obtain the golden fleece? | Medea
Who is Tisiphone? | the Fury who guards the entrance to Tartarus
Who is punished by having his liver Eaten by vultures? | Tityus
Who is punished by having his liver eaten by vultures? | Tityus
Who is the bard that sings at the court of the Phaeacians? | Demodocus
Who is the centaur in this image? | Nessus
Who is the comrade of Achilles that served as both companion and tutor to him? | Phoenix
Who is the father of Danae and grandfather of Perseus? | Acrisius
Who is the goddess on the far left? | Athena
Who is the last hero Odysseus is said to have spoken to in the Underworld? | Heracles
Who is the leader of the suitors and the first one killed? | Antinous
Who is the main figure here? | Aeneas
Who is the mother Theseus? | Aethra
Who is the son of Achilles and murderer of Priam? | Neoptolemus
Who is the sone of Minos for whose death Minos seeks vengeance from Athens? | Androgeos
Who is the woman here? | Deianira
Who requested burial from Odysseus in the Underworld? | Elpenor
Who seduces Atreus' wife and takes possession of the talisman that guarantees kingship of Mycenae? | Thyestes
Who spoke the following curse against Aeneas? 'Let there be no love between ...... | Dido, Queen of Carthage
Who tells Aneas that he died through the trickery of Helen at the hands of Menelaus and Odysseus? | Deiphobus
Who tells Odysseus that he was murdered by his wife? | Agamemnon
Who usuroed the throne from Aeson and became king of Iolcus? | Pelias
Who usurped the throne from Aeson and became king of Iolcus? | Pelias
Who violates Cassandra and is punished by Athena? | Aha, the son of Oileus
Who was bribed by Pelops to fix the chariot race? | Myrtilus
Who was the Boeotian king who took Nephele as his first wife? | Athamas
Who was the fater of Cadmus? | Agenor
Who was the first wife of Heracles, whom he killed in a fit of rage? | Megara
Who was the grandfather of Theseus and king of Troezen? | Pitteus
Who was the helmsman of the Argo? | Tiphys
Who was the husband of Alcmena? | Amphitryon
Who was the husband of Laodamia and, though he was the first Greek hero killed in the war, returned briefly to spend one final night with her? | Protesilaus
Who was the king of Seraphs and brother to Dictys? | Polydectes
Who was the last king of Athens? | Codrus
Who was the mother of Aeneas? | Venus
Who was the only one that was tricked into taking part in the human feast offered to the gods? | Demeter
Who was the queen of the Lemian women? | Hypsipyle
Who was the queen of the Lemnian women? | Hypsipyle
Who was the wife of Ateus? | Aerope
Who was the wife of Atreus? | Aerope
Who was unwittingly responsible for the death of Heracles? | Deianira
Who went on the embassy to Achilles? | Odysseus, Ajax, and Phoenix
Whose daughter does Jason propose to Marry, thus provoking Medea's wrath? | Creon's
Whose daughter does Jason propose to marry, thus provoking media's wrath? | Creon's
Whose ghost would not talk to Odysseus in the Underworld? | Ajax
Whose protection and offer of sanctuary does Medea require before she puts her murderous plan into action in Euripides' play? | Aegeus
Whose son does Theseus clam to be when Minos makes an attempt upon one of the Athenian maids onvoard ship? | Poseidon
Why did Heracles have to do his twelve labours? | To atone for killing his wife and children
Why did Perseus choose to kill Medusa and not one of her sister Gorgons? | Medusa was the only one who was mortal
Why must the Trojans lose the war? | Because the Trojans have broken the rules of courtesy, the sanctity of the family, and the gust-host relationship.
Zeus, a weather god and a storm god. He is famously the hurler of thuderbolts. | Zeus's first affair. Zeus enters ether room as a shower of gold and sleeps with Danae, the daughter of the king of Argos Acrisius.
